
CRYPTAR(1)

NAME
	cryptar - A cryptographic archiving program

SYNOPSIS
	cryptar [options] archive patterns

DESCRIPTION
	This manual page documents cryptar, a cryptographic backup
	program that does not trust its repository to be sufficiently
	secure to prevent intruders reading or even modifying the data
	it stores.  It can prevent the first and detect the second.
	Nothing (possible) can prevent the store from losing or
	modifying the data stored, but these events can at least be
	detected.

	Cryptar is an implementation of the cryptar algorithm, which in turn
	is based on the rsync algorithm.  By propitious use of a split
	database, it stores backup data on a remote server in encrypted form,
	maintaining sufficient signature information in the local database
	that it can compute efficient differences between the current versions
	of files and their previously backed up versions.

	In doing so it avoids the need to trust the remote database beyond the
	hope that data stored there will be saved and returned.  It is able to
	guarantee, however, that data returned is legitimate and unmodified.
	No unencrypted data leaves the client for the server.

OPTIONS
        --backup, -b
                archive files

        --create, -c
                create a new archive

        --extract, -x
                extract files from an archive

        --list, -t
                list files

        --ping, -p
                ping a remote server

        --verbose=num, -v num
                be more verbose, num is the bitwise or of one or more
                of these:
		    1=files, 2=protocol, 4=IO, 8=IO summary
		    16=flow, 32=detail flow, 64=DB

        --dry-run, -n
                don't actually do anything

        --daemon
                run as a server (block store)

        --help, -h
                display a helpful message

        --selftest
                test the protocol and some internal functions, only
                available if MAINTAINER_MODE is set to non-zero at
                compile time

SETUP
	You must create a file called $HOME/.cryptar to specify the
	archives you know about.  This should change and become
	automated as a part of the --create option.

	An archive specification includes the directories to backup as
	well as the host to which to back it up.  Thus, in usage, one
	need merely state the archive to use.  What to backup (or
	restore) and where it is stored remotely is determined from
	the local database.

EXAMPLES
	Note that pattern matching (the final arguments to cryptar) is
	not well implemented yet.  In some cases it's not implemented
	at all.  This should change soon...

	To archive some files as configured in a database called
	work-files:

                cryptar --backup work-files

        To see what's in the database:

                cryptar --list work-files
	
        To restore those files again:

                cryptar --extract work-files
	
FILES
	$HOME/cryptar/
                Directory for local databases.  If this goes away,
        	there is no recovery.

        $HOME/.cryptar
                Configuration file, probably will get wrapped into
                --create and the local database.


BUGS
        This software is early beta.  It has many bugs.  The object
        serialization and network protocol standards may change
        without notice as it becomes more stable.  This means you can
        use it, but at your own risk and with the understanding that
        your current archive may not be accessible by a future version
        of cryptar.

	As cryptar approaches proper release, we will implement
	backward compatibility from that point forward.

	In addition, it may not even work as advertised.

	Please help: report bugs or help with development.
	See the file README.code.txt in the source distribution.

AUTHOR
        Written by Jeff Abrahamson

REPORTING BUGS
        Report bugs to <jeff@purple.com>

COPYRIGHT
	Copyright © 2004 Jeff Abrahamson
	This is free software; see the source for copying conditions.  There is
        NO  warranty;  not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
        PURPOSE.

SEE ALSO
         J. Abrahamson, A. J. O'Donnell,Cryptar: Secure, Untrustful,
         Differencing Backup, NordU/usenix conference, Copenhagen,
         Denmark, January 31 - February 1, 2004.

